Let's now move on to the set interface in this review let's look at set interfaces and descent interface
and a few examples exempli implementations of the said interface.
The important thing about this interface is that it does not have duplication.
So if object one equals object two then only one of them can be on the set.
So as you can see there are not a lot of additional methods in the set interface or not a lot of additional
important methods in the set interface compared to the collection interface.
So the exact method in the collection interface our water present in the state as well.
The only constraint The only additional constraint that it places in addition to the collections is
the fact that you should not have any duplication in the elements in the list.
There are a couple interfaces which are important in the thick interfaces.
One is to the interface and the other one is navigable setting.
That is if you look at desart it's interface.
The main difference between targeted and set is sorting.
So what does this water do.
It maintains elements in a solid old order so set into this does not guarantee any order but a certain
interface on the other hand keep the elements sorted.
So in addition to the usual methods that are supported in set it support method stops it had said data
set.
So that's basically a subset of elements between this value and this value.
And you can ask for head set and detailed set as when you can also ask for a first element and the last
element because the elements are in an order.
You can specifically ask for a first element and the last element as well.
So that's the interface sorted set the other interface which is present in inset is the navigable set
so navigate books that actually extends this sort of set.
And it kind of gives you additional navigation methods.
So it's a navigable said is nothing but a sort of set extended with navigation methods.
So it does navigation method help you to find values which are close to something so let's say I wanted
to find the nearest value which is lower than this or the nearest value which is higher than this or
you you on the pole for the first element or pool for the last element.
These kind of things we would be able to get through the navigable set.
So the navigable said interface extend this Alderton endeavor.
So if you look at the hierarchy it's set so it's a distance set and navigable set extends So it's set
the main important thing about set is elements in a set all this is unique so salt added elements are
unique and they are in sorted order and navigable to pro-white of the mean more navigation tool it helps
you to find elements which are more than a specific element heavier than a specific element or portal
for the first and last element kind of stuff.
So that's this are set.
Let's now look at a few implementations of said interface.
So the first thing which we look at is the hash that the hash that implements that hash.
That does not guarantee ordering.
So anything that you see a word hash.
So if you see something like hash then that particular class will never support order of insertion.
So if I'm inserting an X be order then the elements might be stored in any order.
Eggs B C B B.
I mean there are a number of orders that are possible.
So it might be stored in any specific order.
So it does not get in the order.
Heisted uses a kind of a hashing implementation.
The next step is link Haslet that one important about anything linked is they would maintain the order
of insertion.
So link hash said maintains the order of insertion has said does not maintain the order of insertion.
So if elements are inserted in order X be the way of storing it in eling has said would be X be as well.
That's the main difference between the Hastert and that link has it.
On the other hand a preset implement set and navigable set.
And as we know navigable set extends the sorted set.
So basically reset implements set started set and navigate will set.
So the elements are stored in a sorted order.
So if I am inserting HCB the order of storing them would be a b c.
So that would be stored stored in sorted order.
And it also has all the navigation methods that are implemented in navigable set.
So the three sets that we discuss right now are have said links that entries set in a Hash said the
the in institution is not maintained but it will not still duplicate.
Just like any set up link has said on the other side maintains order of insertion and make sure that
there are no duplicates and it does not maintain order of insertion but it stores them daily mints in
the sorted order and thereby you can use navigable say to find out a specific element in a specific
range or you can find out what is small and then a current Belgium and what is bigger than the current
element and all that kind of good stuff.
Until now we at a few said interface's there are three set interfaces.
Basically the set started set and navigable set and we looked at three examples said classes as well
hash said linked hash that entries said at a later point in this specific section.
We'll look at a few code examples for these as well.
But until then I.